# How to navigate this toolkit

Readers can use this toolkit freely by navigating through each section, without any particular predefined order. However, even if readers can jump into different sections as needed, the toolkit follows a logical sequence that progressively builds upon tools that can help navigate a generic citizen-led action co-creation process. In each section, when possible, links to existing resources are provided. The overall toolkit is also meant to be iterative, and it provides reflection tools that can help better define future steps and reflect on the results achieved.

Conceptually, this toolkit is divided into the following parts: (1) _Action initiation_, (2) _Action implementation_, (3) _Reflection_, and (4) _Inspiration (Action Gallery)_. A special section, _Working with Creatives_, is dedicated to the connection with —and involvement of— creatives in the co-creation process and implementation of the actions. Initially, the _Action initiation_ section aims to provide tools that help collaboratively shape the actions by the citizen observatory, focusing on the active role of the citizens and communities within the CO. This is done by providing a curated selection of different co-creation tools, as well as resources from various projects and practitioners experience. The _Action implementation_ section is aimed at providing guidelines, based on previous experience and other tools, on how to plan, produce and deliver a citizen-led action. Finally, the _Action Gallery_ provides a compilation of previous projects and examples that may inspire Citizen Observatories in their actions, linking with the previous sections when relevant.
